Consistency & language improvements (#182)
hazelcast/hazelcast-platform-operator-docs: docs/modules/ROOT/pages/backup-restore.adoc

You can create backups in either of the following places:

* Locally. Local backups are kept in-volume and never moved anywhere, which means that the data is constrained to the cluster.
* Externally. External backups are moved to buckets that you provide, which allows the data to be used in different clusters. For example, you might want to move data between two clusters.

TIP: Follow the link:https://docs.hazelcast.com/tutorials/hazelcast-platform-operator-external-backup-restore[Restore a Cluster from Cloud Storage with Hazelcast Platform Operator] tutorial if you prefer a working example.

[enabling-persistence]
== Enable Persistence

Hazelcast persistence is configured as follows:

[source,yaml,subs="attributes+"]
----
include::ROOT:example$/hazelcast-persistence.yaml[]
----

<1> Cluster recovery policy. For further information on selecting a cluster recovery policy, see <<recovery-policy, Choosing a Cluster Recovery Policy>>.
<2> Requested size of the PersistentVolumeClaim (PVC) for Hazelcast data persistence. You must calculate the total amount of disk space that you will require.

>     Remember that the total amount of used disk space might be larger than the size of your in-memory data, depending on the number of local backups you make.

Author: Mainly for context. The note was separated from the item it applied to.

----
--

Local backups are always kept in volume.

[triggering-external-backups]
== Trigger External Backups

In some cases, keeping the data only in volume and restoring the data to a single Kubernetes cluster is not enough. You can use external storage to support portablility. For example, when you want to move data between two Kubernetes clusters. 

> When persistence is enabled, your Hazelcast pod starts with `platform-operator-agent`. Agent uploads backups to the external bucket that you have configured. 

Author: Removed

----
include::ROOT:example$/cron-hot-backup.yaml[]
----

For further information on the `CronHotBackup` resource, see xref:api-ref.adoc#cronhotbackupspec[CronHotBackupSpec] in the Hazelcast Operator API Reference.

The `schedule` field takes a valid cron expression. For example, you can configure the following scheduled backups:

[cols="1,1"]
|===
|`schedule` Value|Description

| ```30 10 * * *```
| Take a backup at 10:30 AM every day

| ```0, 0, 1,15,25 * *```
| Take a backup at midnight on the 1st, 15th, and 25th of each month

| ```@monthly```
| Take a backup at midnight on the first day of each month
|===

For a full list of supported expressions, refer to link:https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/robfig/cron/v3@v3.0.1#hdr-CRON_Expression_Format[CRON Expression Format,window=_blank] in the library documentation.

[checking-the-status-of-a-backup]
== Check the Status of a Backup

To check the status of a local backup, use the following command:

[source,bash]
----
kubectl get hotbackup hot-backup
----

The result is similar to the following:

[source,bash]
----
NAME         STATUS
hot-backup   Success
----

[restoring-from-local-backup]
== Restore from Local Backups

> You can only use a local backup once to restore a cluster.

Author: Because a Warning is used to tell users not to do something; or that something is irreversible. You could argue that using the backup means that it cannot be used again; and this is irreversible. However, a recommendation definitely doesn't belong in a warning. 

Also, it is preferable that big orange warnings are minimised on a page for user confidence.

Happy to re-introduce the recommendation, but I'd suggest (also) starting the Restore from External Backups with a similar sentence (which I obviously forgot to do in the initial updated), such as: 

You can use an external backup to persistently restore a backup across clusters.

> You can only use a local backup once to restore a cluster.

Author: Added suggested sentence to Restore from External Backups

To restore a cluster from a local backup, you can choose from the following approaches:

* Reapply the Hazelcast custom resource directly. 
+

> This approach gives the cluster access to the PVCs that contain the persisted data. The Hazelcast cluster is restored from the existing `hot-restart` folders.

Author: Changed to persistence due to https://docs.hazelcast.com/hazelcast/5.5-snapshot/kubernetes/helm-hazelcast-enterprise-chart#5-8-0

* Restore from a local backup, which was created using the HotBackup resource. 
+
To use this approach, you must have configured `hotBackupResource Name` in the `restore` section of your Hazelcast custom resource configuration. For the restore to work correctly, the specified `HotBackup` resource must have been created successfully. You can check the status of your local backup as described in <<scheduling-backups,Scheduling Backups>>

> +

Author: Always a fan of content reuse! Sounds like a good plan to me.

> +

Author: Linked to wrong section! Should have been Check Status of Backup - link updated. We can discuss whether it is worth single-sourcing for use elsewhere.

For this approach, the `platform-operator-agent` container, also known as the sidecar agent and Agent, is

> deployed with the Hazelcast container in the same Pod. Agent starts as an init container, which is a specialized container that runs before the Hazelcast container.

Author: Updated

+
The configuration is as follows:
+
[source,yaml,subs="attributes+"]
----
include::ROOT:example$/hazelcast-persistence-restore-cr-name.yaml[]
----

<1> `HotBackup` resource name used for restore. The backup folder name is taken from the `HotBackup` resource.
<2> Optional. This is always `hazelcast/platform-operator-agent`. 
Agent responsible for restoring data from local storage and cleaning up after the move. 
If you enable `persistence` and do not pass the agent configuration, Hazelcast Operator uses the latest compatible version of agent.

[restoring-from-external-backups]
== Restore from External Backups

To restore a backed-up cluster from an external bucket, you can configure either:

* The URI and secret of the bucket.
* The name of the HotBackup resource that was used to trigger the external backup.

> The `platorm-operator-agent` container is deployed with the Hazelcast container in the same Pod. The agent starts as an init container, also known as the sidecar agent and Agent, which is a specialized container that runs before the Hazelcast container.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For this approach, the `platform-operator-agent` container is deployed as an init container along with the Hazelcast container in the same Pod. The agent starts before the Hazelcast container to download backup folders from the source bucket and arrange them in case of a successful restore.
```

Author: Updated

----
include::ROOT:example$/hazelcast-persistence-restore-external.yaml[]
----
<1> Bucket URI from which backup data is restored.
<2> Name of the secret with credentials for accessing the specified bucket URI.
<3> Optional. This is always `hazelcast/platform-operator-agent`. 
    Agent responsible for restoring data from external storage and cleaning up after the move. 

>     If you enable `persistence` and do not pass the agent configuration, Hazelcast Operator uses the latest compatible version of agent.

Reviewer: same

Author: Updated

include::ROOT:example$/hazelcast-persistence-restore-cr-name.yaml[]
----

<1> Name of the `HotBackup` resource used for the restore. The bucket URI and secret are taken from the `HotBackup` resource.
<2> Optional. Agent responsible for restoring data from external storage.

>     If you provide `restore` under `persistence` and do not pass the agent configuration, Hazelcast Platform Operator

Reviewer: same

Author: For future reference; if you have commented once, you can leave it at that; I'll ensure that all instances of the same information are updated in line.

Should save you a little time ;-)

Author: Updated
